README.md, before:

# GardenHub
### A repository for the common garden experiment data analyses
#### Last update: 14/12/2022 by Erica

******

### Repository structure:
The repository is subdivided into the following folders: 

- #### [data](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data):
  - common_garden: one sub-folder per year 2015-2021.
      - For all years common garden measurements: [all_merged_data_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/common_garden_data_2022/all_cg_data_2022csv)
  - [phenology](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/phenology): 
    - [groundtruthing_2022](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/phenology/groundtruthing_2022): ground-truthing sheets (2022)
    - [phenocam_pics](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/phenology/phenocam_pics): **(only missing CG ones)**
  - [source_pops](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/source_pops): all source population data (2017-2022)
      - For all years source population SLA, LA, LDMC: [all_source_area_traits.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/source_pops/all_source_area_traits.csv)
      - For all maternal population height, width, stem elongation, leaf length, stem diameter (note: no species IDs, can be found by matching Standard IDs):  [mother_data.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/source_pops/mother_data.csv)
      - For all years source (and maternal) population height, width, stem elongation, leaf length, stem diameter:  [unique_source_mother.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/source_pops/unique_source_mother.csv)
      - For all years ALL common garden + ALL source populations + ALL mother data: (a) **Growth**: [all_CG_source_growth.csv](data/all_CG_source_growth.csv ). (b) **Traits**: [all_CG_source_traits.csv](data/all_CG_source_traits.csv)
  - [tomst](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/tomst): TOMST for common garden and source populations 2021-2022
      - [CG_FullTOMST_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/tomst/Common_garden_TOMST_17August2022/CG_FullTOMST_2022.csv)
      - [KP_FullTOMST_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/tomst/Kluane_Plateau_TOMST_15August2022/KP_FullTOMST_2022.csv)
      - [QHI_FullTOMST_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/tomst/QHI_TOMST_August2022/QHI_FullTOMST_2022.csv)
  - [hobo](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/hobo): HOBO data in the common garden 2013-2021
      - [HOBO_Common_garden_12Aug2021.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/hobo/HOBO_Common_garden_12Aug2021.csv)
  - [environment](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/environment): KP and QHI extra environmental data from past years e.g.ibuttons
  
- #### [scripts](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts):
  - [common_garden](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/common_garden):
    - [common_garden_2022.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/common_garden/common_garden_2022.R): all analyses ran this year i.e. up to date script
    - [maternal_effects.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/common_garden/maternal_effects_2022.R): with maternal effects analyses 
  - [source_populations](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/source_populations): organization and merging of data from source population trait measurements (Madi collected 2021-22 and previous TS data)
  - [results_models](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/results_models): models ran to be in the results section
    - [results_models_growth.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/results_models/results_models_growth.R)
    - [results_models_traits.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/results_models/results_models_traits.R)
  - [methods_models](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/methods_models): models ran to be in the methods section
    - [methods_models_growth.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/methods_models/methods_models_growth.R)
    - [methods_models_traits.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/methods_models/methods_models_traits.R)
  - [phenology](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/phenology): need to add to this 
  - [environment](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/environment):
    - [tomst](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/environment/tomst): folder with all TOMST data wrangling (for CG, KP, QHI 2022)
    - [hobo](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/environment/hobo): folder with HOBO data wrangling for CG
    - [KP_env.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/environment/KP_env.R): wrangling miscellaneous past environmental data
    - [QHI_env.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/environment/QHI_env.R): wrangling miscellaneous past environmental data
  - [tomst](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/tomst)
  
- #### [figures]

- #### [documents](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/documents): planning and miscellanous docs  

*****

#### Requirements
- `RStudio` version 1.2.5001 or greater
- packages `ggplot2`...

#### Feedback Etiquette

- Please use either an issue or a pull request.
- Please use "###" and your initial before your feedback comments.

Commit message:

E updates readme and wrangled CG individual observations phenocams

README.md, after:

# GardenHub
### A repository for the common garden experiment data analyses
#### Last update: 14/12/2022 by Erica

******

### Repository structure:
The repository is subdivided into the following folders: 

- #### [data](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data):
  - common_garden: one sub-folder per year 2015-2021.
      - For all years common garden measurements: [all_merged_data_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/common_garden_data_2022/all_cg_data_2022csv)
  - [phenology](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/phenology): 
    - [groundtruthing_2022](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/phenology/groundtruthing_2022): ground-truthing sheets (2022)
    - [phenocam_pics](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/phenology/phenocam_pics): including KP, QHI and CG (with individual shrub observations for CG shrubs)
  - [source_pops](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/source_pops): all source population data (2017-2022)
      - For all years source population SLA, LA, LDMC: [all_source_area_traits.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/source_pops/all_source_area_traits.csv)
      - For all maternal population height, width, stem elongation, leaf length, stem diameter (note: no species IDs, can be found by matching Standard IDs):  [mother_data.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/source_pops/mother_data.csv)
      - For all years source (and maternal) population height, width, stem elongation, leaf length, stem diameter:  [unique_source_mother.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/source_pops/unique_source_mother.csv)
      - For all years ALL common garden + ALL source populations + ALL mother data: (a) **Growth**: [all_CG_source_growth.csv](data/all_CG_source_growth.csv ). (b) **Traits**: [all_CG_source_traits.csv](data/all_CG_source_traits.csv)
  - [tomst](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/tomst): TOMST for common garden and source populations 2021-2022
      - [CG_FullTOMST_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/tomst/Common_garden_TOMST_17August2022/CG_FullTOMST_2022.csv)
      - [KP_FullTOMST_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/tomst/Kluane_Plateau_TOMST_15August2022/KP_FullTOMST_2022.csv)
      - [QHI_FullTOMST_2022.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/tomst/QHI_TOMST_August2022/QHI_FullTOMST_2022.csv)
  - [hobo](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/hobo): HOBO data in the common garden 2013-2021
      - [HOBO_Common_garden_12Aug2021.csv](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/data/hobo/HOBO_Common_garden_12Aug2021.csv)
  - [environment](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/data/environment): KP and QHI extra environmental data from past years e.g.ibuttons
  
- #### [scripts](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts):
  - [common_garden](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/common_garden):
    - [common_garden_2022.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/common_garden/common_garden_2022.R): all analyses ran this year i.e. up to date script
    - [maternal_effects.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/common_garden/maternal_effects_2022.R): with maternal effects analyses 
  - [source_populations](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/source_populations): organization and merging of data from source population trait measurements (Madi collected 2021-22 and previous TS data)
  - [results_models](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/results_models): models ran to be in the results section
    - [results_models_growth.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/results_models/results_models_growth.R)
    - [results_models_traits.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/results_models/results_models_traits.R)
  - [methods_models](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/methods_models): models ran to be in the methods section
    - [methods_models_growth.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/methods_models/methods_models_growth.R)
    - [methods_models_traits.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/methods_models/methods_models_traits.R)
  - [phenology](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/phenology): need to add to this 
  - [environment](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/environment):
    - [tomst](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/environment/tomst): folder with all TOMST data wrangling (for CG, KP, QHI 2022)
    - [hobo](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/environment/hobo): folder with HOBO data wrangling for CG
    - [KP_env.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/environment/KP_env.R): wrangling miscellaneous past environmental data
    - [QHI_env.R](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/blob/main/scripts/environment/QHI_env.R): wrangling miscellaneous past environmental data
  - [tomst](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/scripts/tomst)
  
- #### [figures]

- #### [documents](https://github.com/ShrubHub/GardenHub/tree/main/documents): planning and miscellanous docs  

*****

#### Requirements
- `RStudio` version 1.2.5001 or greater
- packages `ggplot2`...

#### Feedback Etiquette

- Please use either an issue or a pull request.
- Please use "###" and your initial before your feedback comments.
